DOCS-12646-clarify-BYOK-Kubernetes-relationship (#570)
mulesoft/docs-runtime-fabric: modules/ROOT/pages/index-self-managed.adoc

= Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes

> Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes enables you to deploy Mule applications and API proxies to a Kubernetes cluster that you create, configure, and manage. Runtime Fabric runs as a service on an existing Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon EKS), Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS), or Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) environments.

Reviewer: Just for the first mention in the topic set...:
```suggestion
Anypoint Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes enables you to deploy Mule applications and API proxies to a Kubernetes cluster that you create, configure, and manage. Anypoint Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes runs as a service in existing Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS), Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS), or Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) environments.
```
It appears that we have to use the whole dang string for the container name and use "Runtime Fabric on EKS" or "Runtime Fabric on AKS" when being specific. 
The product naming sheet (https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1f6v9cjx84ZAHGeZs36A0clZoQc_ggAe6m6e-NQ9BUuk/edit#gid=71218867)does not mention the Google version, but I'm going to assume it is "Runtime Fabric on GKE." 
It looks like we are avoiding including "Amazon" or "AWS" in any official naming for our product:
<img width="731" alt="Screen Shot 2022-04-05 at 3 01 44 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/18537445/161859287-d7559d44-4994-4afe-8057-f93e5633e1d1.png">

Reviewer: ^^^ Please implement GLOBALLY in this documentation. ^^^

Reviewer: CONFIRMED by MarComm after first PR file edits submission.

== Core Components of Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes 

> Runtime Fabric is a set of components that run inside your Kubernetes cluster and a set of components that run in the Anypoint control plane.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes and its underlying components run as various kubernetes deployment objects on Amazon EKS, AKS, or GKE environment. The management of this Runtime Fabric is exposed via Mulesoft hosted Anypoint platform.
```

> Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes and its underlying components run as Kubernetes deployment objects on Amazon EKS, AKS, or GKE environments. You manage Runtime Fabric via Anypoint Platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anypoint Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes and its underlying components run as Kubernetes deployment objects in EKS, AKS, or GKE environments. You manage the objects via Anypoint Platform.
```

> Linux-based operating systems are required for all nodes that run Runtime Fabric components on Self-Managed Kubernetes clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Linux-based operating systems are required for all nodes that run Anypoint Runtime Fabric components on self-managed Kubernetes clusters.
```
Per above comments/distinctions.

> The control plane pulls all Runtime Fabric core components and Mule Runtime images from the Runtime Fabric Docker registry. All Runtime Fabric in-cluster components run on Linux-based nodes and are managed by the Runtime Fabric agent.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Running Runtime Fabric components on a self-managed Kubernetes clusters requires  the underlying nodes/instances to be Linux-based.
```

=== The Runtime Fabric Agent

> The Runtime Fabric agent is deployed as a pod in the cluster and communicates with the control plane via an mTLS outbound connection established at startup. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Anypoint Runtime Manager agent (Runtime Manager agent) is deployed as a pod in the cluster and communicates with the control plane via an mTLS outbound connection established at startup. 
```

Author: This one is not correct--the Runtime Fabric agent is its own thing

> The Runtime Fabric agent is deployed on all nodes and communicates with the control plane via an mTLS outbound connection established at startup. 

Reviewer 3: The Runtime Fabric agent is deployed as a Pod in the cluster and communicates with the control plane via an mTLS outbound connection established at startup. (its not deployed on all nodes)

Author: got it. thanks.

> The agent is event-driven. When a Kubernetes event is generated by an application state change, the agent sends metadata to the control plane describing the current state of the application. Events include application pod starts, updates, or restarts.

Reviewer: Unless the passive is intentional...:
```suggestion
The agent is event-driven. When an application state change generates a Kubernetes event, the agent sends metadata describing the current state of the application to the control plane. Kubernetes events include application pod starts, updates, or restarts.
```

> The agent also listens for incoming requests from the control plane. When the agent receives a message from the control plane, the agent makes changes to the appropriate Kubernetes resources as specified in the message. Such changes include creating a new application, updating an existing application, or deleting an application. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The agent also listens for incoming requests from the control plane. When the agent receives a message from the control plane, the agent makes changes to the Kubernetes resources specified in the message. Such changes include creating a new application, updating an existing application, or deleting an application. 
```

=== Additional Cluster Components

> The following Runtime Fabric Components also run inside the Kubernetes cluster: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following Anypoint Runtime Fabric (Runtime Fabric) components also run inside the Kubernetes cluster: 
```

Reviewer: The way I read the naming doc, we have two separate products:

- Anypoint Runtime Fabric (Runtime Fabric)
- Anypoint Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes (Anypoint Runtime Fabric on EKS, Anypoint Runtime Fabric on AKS, or Anypoint Runtime Fabric on GKS)

"Runtime Fabric" is an acceptable abbr. for only the first.
Please implement GLOBALLY. This is pretty confusing!

Reviewer: CONFIRMED

> * Mule Cluster IP Service: Provides an API that Mule applications use to discover their peers inside the cluster

Reviewer: I don't see this documented anywhere as an official component name, but it might be: let me know?
```suggestion
* Mule cluster IP service: Provides an API that Mule applications use to discover their peers inside the cluster
```
OR???
```suggestion
* Mule clustering: Provides an API that Mule applications use to discover their peers inside the cluster
```

> * Resource cache: Provides in-cluster storage of application dependencies

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Resource cache: Provides a cluster-local cache of application dependencies
```

> * Persistence Gateway: Provides a persistent ObjectStore interface to Mule applications

Reviewer: ditto; the only "gateway" we consider part of a proprietary name appears to be Anypoint Flex Gateway
```suggestion
* Persistence gateway: Provides a persistent ObjectStore interface to Mule applications
```

=== About Component Installations and Upgrades

> When you install Runtime Fabric on your Kubernetes cluster, the Runtime Fabric command-line utlity (`rtfctl`) swaps an activation data token for a set of activation properties. Properties include credentials to access the Runtime Fabric Docker Registry and credentials to establish an mTLS connection to the Anypoint platform. It then invokes Helm to perform the installation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you install Anypoint Runtime Fabric for Self-Managed Kubernetes on your Kubernetes cluster, the command-line utility (`rtfctl`) swaps an activation data token for a set of activation properties. Properties include credentials to access the Anypoint Runtime Fabric for Self-Managed Kubernetes Docker registry and credentials to establish an mTLS connection to Anypoint Platform. The utility then invokes Helm to perform the installation. 
```

> You trigger upgrades to the Runtime Fabric components in your cluster from the Anypoint control plane, specifically from Runtime Manager. When you trigger an upgrade, an upgrade message is processed inside the target cluster, and `rtfctl` invokes Helm to upgrade the components' software versions. If you encounter a problem during an upgrade, you can use `rtfctl` to invoke an Helm rollback and restore the cluster to a stable state. A rollback creates a report in the control plane.

Reviewer: Never use "Anypoint" alone:
```suggestion
You trigger upgrades to the Runtime Fabric components in your cluster from the Anypoint Platform control plane, specifically from Runtime Manager. When you trigger an upgrade, an upgrade message is processed inside the target cluster, and `rtfctl` invokes Helm to upgrade the components' software versions. If you encounter a problem during an upgrade, you can use `rtfctl` to invoke a Helm rollback and restore the cluster to a stable state. A rollback creates a report in the control plane.
```

== How Application Deployments Work in Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes 

> When you deploy an application in Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes, the following occurs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you deploy an application in Anypoint Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes, the following occurs:
```

Reviewer: Again, here and below, I believe that the guidance in the naming doc is to:

- Abbreviate only Anypoint Runtime Fabric to Runtime Fabric
- Abbreviate ARFoSMK to one of the three options, or not abbreviate it at all

Checking with my MarComm contact now....

Reviewer: CONFIRMED

. You use Runtime Manager to trigger the application deployment.
. The Runtime Fabric agent in the target cluster receives a request to deploy the application.

> . Runtime Fabric assigns the application's namespace or creates a new namespace if necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Runtime Fabric assigns the application to an existing namespace or creates a new namespace if necessary.
```

. Runtime Fabric generates the appropriate Kubernetes resources, including a deployment, ConfigMap, secrets, services, and ingress.
. The Kubernetes deployment resource may include an init container, which fetches dependencies from the Runtime Fabric resource cache.

> . If the resource cache doesn’t contain required dependencies, Runtime Fabric fetches them from the control plane and adds them to the resource cache.

Reviewer: I want to make this one step with two options, rather than two separate steps in a single flow.
OR I want to begin both steps with "If...."

Author: good idea!

//image 

=== Assigning Namespaces in Runtime Fabric

> Each application is deployed into a Kubernetes namespace based on the application’s environment. 

Reviewer: Does "environment" = EKS, AKS, or GKS?

> . Runtime Fabric looks for a namespace with the label `rtf.mulesoft.com/envId=<ANYPOINT_ENVIRONMENT_ID>`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Runtime Fabric searches for a namespace with the label `rtf.mulesoft.com/envId=<ANYPOINT_ENVIRONMENT_ID>`. 
```

> . If Runtime Fabric can't find that label, it looks for a namespace with the name `<ANYPOINT_ENVIRONMENT_ID>`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. If Runtime Fabric can't find that label, it searches for a namespace with the name `<ANYPOINT_ENVIRONMENT_ID>`. 
```

Reviewer: Is this ^^^ a concatenated representation of the previous full search string, indicating a repetition of the search, just with a different name (EKS, AKS, or GKS)?

> . If Runtime Fabric can't find that namespace, it creates a new namespace called `<ANYPOINT_ENVIRONMENT_ID>`.

Reviewer: ditto: since I can't see the images, I can't tell for sure...which probably means that we need to specify this as an example in which the searched-for names are the EKS, AKS, or GKS names...?
Just ignore me if this is just Kim being confused and not possibly your audience!

//add image

=== Monitoring Application Deployments

> The Runtime Fabric agent monitors Kubernetes Deployments labelled with `rtf.mulesoft.com/id`. When Kubernetes updates the state of the Deployment, the agent sends that update to the control plane. See xref:logs[Logs] and xref:monitoring[Monitoring] for addtional information. 

Reviewer: Second cap. of "deployment" optional IMHO....

> == Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes: A Shared Responsibility

Reviewer: We avoid using punctuation in titles. How about...
```suggestion
== Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes as a Shared Responsibility
```
OR
```suggestion
== The Shared Responsibility of Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes
```

The successful operation of Anypoint Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes is a shared responsibility. It is critical to understand which areas you provide and manage and which areas MuleSoft provides.

The following image illustrates different MuleSoft and customer responsibilities for on-premises Runtime Fabric instances:

//update image

image::runtimefabricresponsibility-self-managed.png[Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes Shared Responsiblities]

> * MuleSoft provides:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* MuleSoft responsibility
```

Author: I'm going to leave it at provides, as this was some suggested hand-waving from the product team 😬

+

> MuleSoft provides the Runtime Fabric agent, Mule runtime engine, and other dependencies used to deploy Mule applications. The Runtime Fabric agent deploys and manages Mule applications by generating and updating Kubernetes resources such as deployments, pods, replicasets, and ingress resources.

Reviewer: I don't see "Runtime Fabric agent" in the product naming list; is this really Anypoint Runtime Manager agent?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MuleSoft provides the Anypoint Runtime Manager agent, Mule runtime engine (Mule), and dependencies used to deploy Mule applications. The agent deploys and manages Mule applications by generating and updating Kubernetes resources such as deployments, pods, ReplicaSets, and ingress resources.
```

Author: No, the Runtime Fabric agent is just a service that runs in an RTF cluster and communicates with the control plane.

> * Customer responsibility:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Customer responsibility
```

+
*** Security team to verify compliance and obtain security certificates

== Requirements for Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes

> The following describe the general requirements for running Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following descriptions provide you with the general requirements for running Anypoint Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes.
```

=== Kubernetes Support

Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes requires a dedicated cluster that is provisioned and operational. Verify if your environment is correctly configured using the `rtfctl` command-line utility. See xref:install-self-managed.adoc[Install Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes].

Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes supports the following Kubernetes versions:

* 1.18.x
* 1.19.x
* 1.20.10 

=== Supported Architectures

> Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes requires worker nodes which use the x86/x64 architecture. ARM-base architectures are not supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anypoint Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes requires worker nodes that use the x86/x64 architecture. ARM-based architectures are not supported.
```

=== Operating Systems

> Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes supports any Linux-based operating system supported by Amazon EKS, AKS, or GKE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anypoint Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes supports any Linux-based operating system supported by Amazon EKS, AKS, or GKE.
```

* At least 15 GiB of RAM
* At least 250 GiB of available disk space

> Adjust the number of nodes and amount of resources allocated according to the amount and type of workload you run on each Runtime Fabric.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adjust the number of nodes and amount of resources allocated according to the amount and type of workload you run on each Anypoint Runtime Fabric for Self-Managed Kubernetes instance.
```

=== Anypoint Platform Roles and Permissions

> To succesfully use Runtime Fabric, your Anypoint Platform account must have the following permissions enabled:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To successfully use Anypoint Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes, your Anypoint Platform account must have the following permissions enabled:
```

* To manage permissions for Anypoint Platform users, you must have the ability to use xref:access-management::index.adoc[Anypoint Access Management].
* To deploy and manage applications, you must have the ability to use Anypoint Runtime Manager. To deploy applications, you must also have the Exchange Contributors permission enabled for your Anypoint Platform account.

> * To use Runtime Fabric, you must have the Organization Administrators permission or the Manage Runtime Fabrics permission on the corresponding environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To use Runtime Fabric, you must have the Organization Administrators permission or the Manage Runtime Fabrics permission for the corresponding environments.
```

* To delete Runtime Fabric instances, administrators need the Manage Runtime Fabrics permission at the organization level.

=== Network Configuration

> Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes requires an IT administrator to configure network ports, hostnames, and certificates to function correctly. See xref:install-self-managed.adoc[Install Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anypoint Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes requires an IT administrator to configure network ports, hostnames, and certificates to function correctly. See xref:install-self-managed.adoc[Install Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes].
```

Reviewer: I have changed the naming in text in which I had other edit comments, but I did not change all naming. Please search globally and make precise each instance of Runtime Fabric (to either Anypoint Runtime Fabric or to Anypoint Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes).
If none of the instances refers to "vanilla" Anypoint Runtime Fabric, perhaps the distinction does not matter if we make that perfectly clear.
As I said, I am checking with MarComm on official abbreviations for the self-managed versions for EKS, AKS, and GKS.

Reviewer: CONFIRMED
